README.md, before:

# Tailscale on Unifi Dream Machine
This repo contains the scripts necessary to install and run a [tailscale](https://tailscale.com)
instance on your [Unifi Dream Machine](https://unifi-network.ui.com/dreammachine) (UDM/UDM Pro/UDR/UDM-SE).
It does so by piggy-backing on the excellent [boostchicken/udm-utilities](https://github.com/boostchicken/udm-utilities)
to provide a persistent service and runs using Tailscale's usermode networking feature.

## UniFi OS 1.x (UDM/UDM Pro)
**⚠ You can confirm your OS version by running `/usr/bin/ubnt-device-info firmware_detail`**

### Installation

1. Follow the steps to install the boostchicken `on-boot-script` [here](https://github.com/boostchicken-dev/udm-utilities/tree/master/on-boot-script).

   ⚠ Make sure that you exit the `unifi-os` shell before moving onto step 2 (or you won't be able to find the `/mnt/data` directory).

2. Run the `install.sh` script to install the latest version of the 
   Tailscale UDM package on your UDM.
   
   ```sh
   # Install the latest version of Tailscale UDM
   curl -sSLq https://raw.github.com/SierraSoftworks/tailscale-udm/main/install.sh | sh
   ```
3. Start Tailscale using `/mnt/data/tailscale/tailscale up`.
4. Follow the on-screen steps to configure `tailscale` and connect it to your network.
5. Confirm that Tailscale is working by running `/mnt/data/tailscale/tailscale status`

### Management
#### Configuring Tailscale
You can configure Tailscale using all the normal `tailscale up` options, you'll find the binary at
`/mnt/data/tailscale/tailscale`. *Unfortunately we can't make changes to your `$PATH` to expose the
normal `tailscale` command, so you'll need to specify the full path when calling it.*

```sh
/mnt/data/tailscale/tailscale up --advertise-routes=10.0.0.0/24 --advertise-exit-node --advertise-tags=tag:it
```

#### Restarting Tailscale
The `manage.sh` script takes care of installing, starting, stopping, updating, and uninstalling Tailscale.
Run it without any arguments to see the options.

```sh
/mnt/data/tailscale/manage.sh restart
```

#### Upgrading Tailscale
```sh
/mnt/data/tailscale/manage.sh update

# Or, if you are connected over Tailscale and want to run the update anyway
nohup /mnt/data/tailscale/manage.sh update!
```

#### Remove Tailscale
To remove Tailscale, you can run the following command, or run the steps below manually.
   
```sh
/mnt/data/tailscale/manage.sh uninstall
```

##### Manual Steps
1. Kill the `tailscaled` daemon with `killall tailscaled`.
2. Remove the boot script using `rm /mnt/data/on_boot.d/10-tailscaled.sh`
3. Have tailscale cleanup after itself using `/mnt/data/tailscale/tailscaled --cleanup`.
4. Remove the tailscale binaries and state using `rm -Rf /mnt/data/tailscale`.

## UniFi OS 2.x/3.x (UDR/UDM SE)
**⚠ You can confirm your OS version by running `/usr/bin/ubnt-device-info firmware_detail`**
### Installation

1. Run the `install.sh` script to install the latest version of the 
   Tailscale UDM package on your UDM.
   
   ```sh
   # Install the latest version of Tailscale UDM
   curl -sSLq https://raw.github.com/SierraSoftworks/tailscale-udm/main/install.sh | sh
   ```
2. Run `tailscale up` to start Tailscale.
3. Follow the on-screen steps to configure Tailscale and connect it to your network.
4. Confirm that Tailscale is working by running `tailscale status`

### Management
#### Configuring Tailscale
You can configure Tailscale using all the normal `tailscale up` options, you should be able to
find `tailscale` on your path after installation.

```sh
tailscale up --advertise-routes=10.0.0.0/24 --advertise-exit-node --advertise-tags=tag:it
```

#### Restarting Tailscale
The `manage.sh` script takes care of installing, starting, stopping, updating, and uninstalling Tailscale.
Run it without any arguments to see the options.

```sh
/data/tailscale/manage.sh restart
```

#### Upgrading Tailscale
```sh
/data/tailscale/manage.sh update

# Or, if you are connected over Tailscale and want to run the update anyway
nohup /data/tailscale/manage.sh update!
```

#### Remove Tailscale
To remove Tailscale, you can run the following command, or run the steps below manually.
   
```sh
/data/tailscale/manage.sh uninstall
```

##### Manual Steps
1. Kill the `tailscaled` daemon with `systemctl stop tailscaled`.
2. Remove the `tailscale` package using `dpkg -P tailscale`.
3. Remove the management script and state using `rm -Rf /data/tailscale`.

## Contributing
There are clearly lots of folks who are interested in running Tailscale on their UDMs. If
you're one of those people and have an idea for how this can be improved, please create a
PR and we'll be more than happy to incorporate the changes.

## Frequently Asked Questions

### How do I advertise routes?
You do this by updating your Tailscale configuration as you would on any other machine,
just remember to provide the full path to the `tailscale` binary when doing so.

```sh
# Specify the routes you'd like to advertise using their CIDR notation

# UniFi OS 1.x
/mnt/data/tailscale/tailscale up --advertise-routes="10.0.0.0/24,192.168.0.0/24"

# UniFi OS 2.x/3.x
tailscale up --advertise-routes="10.0.0.0/24,192.168.0.0/24"
```

### Can I route traffic from machines on my local network to Tailscale endpoints automatically?
Currently we are not aware of any supported means of achieving this. Tailscale's
subnet routing is intended for Tailscale-to-subnet connections and doesn't provide
explicit support for subnet-to-Tailscale connections.

### Why can't I see a network interface for Tailscale?
Tailscale runs as a userspace networking component on the UDM rather than as a TUN
interface, which means you won't see it in the `ip addr` list.

### Does this support Tailscale SSH?
You bet, make sure you're running the latest version of Tailscale and then run `tailscale up --ssh`
to enable it. You'll need to setup SSH ACLs in your account by following
[this guide](https://tailscale.com/kb/1193/tailscale-ssh/).

```sh
# UniFi OS 1.x
# Update Tailscale to its latest version
/mnt/data/tailscale/manage.sh update!

# Enable SSH advertisment through Tailscale
/mnt/data/tailscale/tailscale up --ssh

# UniFi OS 2.x/3.x
# Update Tailscale to its latest version
/data/tailscale/manage.sh update!

# Enable SSH advertisment through Tailscale
tailscale up --ssh
```

Commit message:

doc: Add a warning about UniFi OS 2.x+ support being experimental

README.md, after:

# Tailscale on Unifi Dream Machine
This repo contains the scripts necessary to install and run a [tailscale](https://tailscale.com)
instance on your [Unifi Dream Machine](https://unifi-network.ui.com/dreammachine) (UDM/UDM Pro/UDR/UDM-SE).
It does so by piggy-backing on the excellent [boostchicken/udm-utilities](https://github.com/boostchicken/udm-utilities)
to provide a persistent service and runs using Tailscale's usermode networking feature.

## UniFi OS 1.x (UDM/UDM Pro)
**⚠ You can confirm your OS version by running `/usr/bin/ubnt-device-info firmware_detail`**

### Installation

1. Follow the steps to install the boostchicken `on-boot-script` [here](https://github.com/boostchicken-dev/udm-utilities/tree/master/on-boot-script).

   ⚠ Make sure that you exit the `unifi-os` shell before moving onto step 2 (or you won't be able to find the `/mnt/data` directory).

2. Run the `install.sh` script to install the latest version of the 
   Tailscale UDM package on your UDM.
   
   ```sh
   # Install the latest version of Tailscale UDM
   curl -sSLq https://raw.github.com/SierraSoftworks/tailscale-udm/main/install.sh | sh
   ```
3. Start Tailscale using `/mnt/data/tailscale/tailscale up`.
4. Follow the on-screen steps to configure `tailscale` and connect it to your network.
5. Confirm that Tailscale is working by running `/mnt/data/tailscale/tailscale status`

### Management
#### Configuring Tailscale
You can configure Tailscale using all the normal `tailscale up` options, you'll find the binary at
`/mnt/data/tailscale/tailscale`. *Unfortunately we can't make changes to your `$PATH` to expose the
normal `tailscale` command, so you'll need to specify the full path when calling it.*

```sh
/mnt/data/tailscale/tailscale up --advertise-routes=10.0.0.0/24 --advertise-exit-node --advertise-tags=tag:it
```

#### Restarting Tailscale
The `manage.sh` script takes care of installing, starting, stopping, updating, and uninstalling Tailscale.
Run it without any arguments to see the options.

```sh
/mnt/data/tailscale/manage.sh restart
```

#### Upgrading Tailscale
```sh
/mnt/data/tailscale/manage.sh update

# Or, if you are connected over Tailscale and want to run the update anyway
nohup /mnt/data/tailscale/manage.sh update!
```

#### Remove Tailscale
To remove Tailscale, you can run the following command, or run the steps below manually.
   
```sh
/mnt/data/tailscale/manage.sh uninstall
```

##### Manual Steps
1. Kill the `tailscaled` daemon with `killall tailscaled`.
2. Remove the boot script using `rm /mnt/data/on_boot.d/10-tailscaled.sh`
3. Have tailscale cleanup after itself using `/mnt/data/tailscale/tailscaled --cleanup`.
4. Remove the tailscale binaries and state using `rm -Rf /mnt/data/tailscale`.

## UniFi OS 2.x/3.x (UDR/UDM SE)
**⚠ You can confirm your OS version by running `/usr/bin/ubnt-device-info firmware_detail`**

**NOTE**: UniFi OS 2.x+ support is currently in beta for this project, if you encounter any issues
please open an issue and we'll do our best to help you out. Logs and clear descriptions of the
steps you took prior to the issue occurring help immensely.

### Installation

1. Run the `install.sh` script to install the latest version of the 
   Tailscale UDM package on your UDM.
   
   ```sh
   # Install the latest version of Tailscale UDM
   curl -sSLq https://raw.github.com/SierraSoftworks/tailscale-udm/main/install.sh | sh
   ```
2. Run `tailscale up` to start Tailscale.
3. Follow the on-screen steps to configure Tailscale and connect it to your network.
4. Confirm that Tailscale is working by running `tailscale status`

### Management
#### Configuring Tailscale
You can configure Tailscale using all the normal `tailscale up` options, you should be able to
find `tailscale` on your path after installation.

```sh
tailscale up --advertise-routes=10.0.0.0/24 --advertise-exit-node --advertise-tags=tag:it
```

#### Restarting Tailscale
The `manage.sh` script takes care of installing, starting, stopping, updating, and uninstalling Tailscale.
Run it without any arguments to see the options.

```sh
/data/tailscale/manage.sh restart
```

#### Upgrading Tailscale
```sh
/data/tailscale/manage.sh update

# Or, if you are connected over Tailscale and want to run the update anyway
nohup /data/tailscale/manage.sh update!
```

#### Remove Tailscale
To remove Tailscale, you can run the following command, or run the steps below manually.
   
```sh
/data/tailscale/manage.sh uninstall
```

##### Manual Steps
1. Kill the `tailscaled` daemon with `systemctl stop tailscaled`.
2. Remove the `tailscale` package using `dpkg -P tailscale`.
3. Remove the management script and state using `rm -Rf /data/tailscale`.

## Contributing
There are clearly lots of folks who are interested in running Tailscale on their UDMs. If
you're one of those people and have an idea for how this can be improved, please create a
PR and we'll be more than happy to incorporate the changes.

## Frequently Asked Questions

### How do I advertise routes?
You do this by updating your Tailscale configuration as you would on any other machine,
just remember to provide the full path to the `tailscale` binary when doing so.

```sh
# Specify the routes you'd like to advertise using their CIDR notation

# UniFi OS 1.x
/mnt/data/tailscale/tailscale up --advertise-routes="10.0.0.0/24,192.168.0.0/24"

# UniFi OS 2.x/3.x
tailscale up --advertise-routes="10.0.0.0/24,192.168.0.0/24"
```

### Can I route traffic from machines on my local network to Tailscale endpoints automatically?
Currently we are not aware of any supported means of achieving this. Tailscale's
subnet routing is intended for Tailscale-to-subnet connections and doesn't provide
explicit support for subnet-to-Tailscale connections.

### Why can't I see a network interface for Tailscale?
Tailscale runs as a userspace networking component on the UDM rather than as a TUN
interface, which means you won't see it in the `ip addr` list.

### Does this support Tailscale SSH?
You bet, make sure you're running the latest version of Tailscale and then run `tailscale up --ssh`
to enable it. You'll need to setup SSH ACLs in your account by following
[this guide](https://tailscale.com/kb/1193/tailscale-ssh/).

```sh
# UniFi OS 1.x
# Update Tailscale to its latest version
/mnt/data/tailscale/manage.sh update!

# Enable SSH advertisment through Tailscale
/mnt/data/tailscale/tailscale up --ssh

# UniFi OS 2.x/3.x
# Update Tailscale to its latest version
/data/tailscale/manage.sh update!

# Enable SSH advertisment through Tailscale
tailscale up --ssh
```
